---
layout: default
author: Brad Pasanek
authorFirst: Brad
authorLast: Pasanek
title: Sestets
category: fabrication
---
### The Increase Puzzle Project

{% assign author = site.data.members[page.author] %}

<h4>
Author: <a href="./../../../../people/{{page.authorLast | downcase}}-{{page.authorFirst | downcase}}.html">{{page.authorFirst}} {{page.authorLast}}</a>
</h4>

A sonnet may be divided at its volta, which assigns eight lines to an opening octave and six to the concluding sestet. This form is functional: in the Petrarchan tradition of sonnet writing, the sestet provides an answer to the problem posed by the octave.  

As fabricators of poem puzzles, the solving of a sonnet is a constraint on design. There are 2,339 ways to place 12 pentominos into a 6 x 10 rectangle. Only one matches the configuration of words in the sixth sonnet in Shakespeare’s sequence of sonnets. Sonnet 12 is next marked as uniquely soluble: one solution matches. And then sonnet 15. All the three match different arrangements in the solution space of 2,339 configurations. When our analysis is brought to all 154 sonnets, we will identify more poems as sestet-solveable. Our script finds sestets in the sequence at unpredictable intervals, almost like the discovery of prime numbers.

The computational process is intensive and analytic but the result has an occult, numerological quality that clings to the fabricated puzzles. As I fit twelve pieces together, I experience a quickening of imagination and understanding solving the puzzle, I feel an inevitable structure take shape and participate in composition. If I remember the poem, this experience of necessary connection is strengthened in anamnesis. The solution implies an argument from design, and because the poem precedes the puzzle, the shapes must lock together. Each piece, named after letter, may be imagined in its molecular relation to every other. The whole is orthogonal, rectilinear, fitting. 

Numbers inform the sort of magical thinking I just verged upon— with Shakespeare perhaps especially coming in for conspiratorial, numerological treatment. Did you know that the 46th Psalm encodes the words “shake” and “speare,” each positioned in the 46th position, counting forward from the first word and backward from the last? (Did you care to know that Shakespeare was 46 in 1610 when the translation of the King James version was completed? Martin Gardner calls these “fantastic facts.”  Bacon may have written Shakespeare, but Shakespeare wrote the Bible. 

<!--To date we've "solved" three sestets, matching Shakespeare's language to polyomino packing puzzles. The sonnets (6, 12, and 15) are the only three of the first seventeen "procreation" sonnets that match solutions to the 6x10 pentomino packing puzzle. The puzzle fits each of the twelve pentomino pieces into the 6x10 rectangle. There are 2,339 solutions to the puzzle. -->
