---
layout: default
author: Brad Pasanek
title: How to Make a Poem into a Puzzle
category: fabrication
---
### How to Make a Poem into a Puzzle

If a puzzle designer distributes the words of an existing poem into a grid in which each square corresponds to a syllable, the resulting poem can be readily converted to a polyomino puzzle by following these two rules (there are other ways to make puzzles, of course, but this is the method we are exploring first):

1. Cut the poem up by assigning a predetermined number of words or syllables to a piece.
     
    We call this "piecifying" the poem. Our group has so far favored regular pentominos, the polygon in the plane made of five squares, connected edge to edge. The twelve resulting pentomino shapes are well understood by puzzle enthusiasts, who have constructed and solved a variety of rectangular pentomino puzzles. Pentominos have an alphabetic look and are named by the letters they resemble: F, I, L, N, P, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z. For this reason, too, we endorse their geometry.

2. When cutting, do not divide words. 
    
    In piecification, we also recommend that the puzzle designer try to capture related words on single piece. Two or three vertically contiguous words, gathered from consecutive lines, will often join to form a new poetic phrase. Empuzzled phrases we've located include "A mightier tyrant" or "must forsake others" (Shakespeare),  "of little recall" (Cristina Rossetti), and many other constituents.

In a regular sonnet, there are 140 squares. Most sonnets can therefore be piecified into 28 pentomino shapes. More interesting are the ways in which the octave or sestet can be divided. More on that in what follows.