---
title: "Sonnet Progress"
date: 2018-02-04
author: devteam
category: fabrication
---
## List of Increase Sonnets

The lists below record progress towards a complete puzzle set. 

Under the first heading are sonnets plotted on graph paper and piece-ified by hand. These are all protoypes. It is hoped that we might solve these again algorithmically, leveraging polyomino-solving software to find the "best" solutions that employ the greatest variety of pentominos. Such is the mandate of _increase_. 

A 140-square grid will hold 28 pieces, which means in an elegant, constrained solution each piece can be used at least twice, with 4 pieces used 3 times. 

Currently under the second heading are the three sonnets identified as sestet-solvable--that is, these are the three sonnets into which all 12 pentomino pieces can be fitted to the sestet.

We have complete Illustrator files for sonnets 12 and 16; neither of which is fully constrained solutions (each piece used twice, with 4 pieces used three times). 

### By Hand
1. Brad Pasanek has done by hand
2. Brad Pasanek has done by hand
3. *
4. *
5. Abigail Johnson has done by hand
6. *
7. * 
8. * 
9. *
10. *
11. *
12. Julianne McCobin, Andie Waterman, and Madeline Zehnder have done by hand
13. *
14. *
15. *
16. Neal Curtis has done by hand
17. *

### Computationally
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6. Sestet identified and solved
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12. Sestet identified and solved
13.
14.
15. Sestet identified and solved
16.
17.

### Illustrator Files
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12. Lauren Johnson has created an .ai file
13.
14.
15.
16. Neal Curtis has created an .ai file
17.

### Material versions
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6. Sestet cut from clear acrylic
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12. Sestet cut from clear acrylic
13.
14.
15. Sestet cut from clear acrylic
16. Neal Curtis has cut a sonnet from orange acrylic. Our first complete puzzle poem. 
17.

